deps: Experiments with Corepack (#35398)
nodejs/node: doc/api/corepack.md

## Troubleshooting

### Running `npm install -g yarn` doesn't work

npm prevents accidentally overriding the Corepack binaries when doing a global
install. To avoid this problem, consider one of the following options:

* Don't run this command anymore; Corepack will provide the package manager
binaries anyway and will ensure that the requested versions are always
available, so installing the package managers explicitly isn't needed anymore.

* Add the `--force` to `npm install`; this will tell npm that it's fine to
override binaries, but you'll erase the Corepack ones in the process (should
that happen, run [`corepack enable`][] again to add them back).

[Corepack]: https://github.com/nodejs/corepack
[Corepack documentation]: https://github.com/nodejs/corepack#readme
[Corepack repository]: https://github.com/nodejs/corepack
[Yarn]: https://yarnpkg.com
[`"packageManager"`]: packages.md#packages_packagemanager
[`corepack disable`]: https://github.com/nodejs/corepack#corepack-disable--name
[`corepack enable`]: https://github.com/nodejs/corepack#corepack-enable--name
[`corepack prepare`]: https://github.com/nodejs/corepack#corepack-prepare--nameversion

> [`package.json`]: packages.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`package.json`]: packages.md#packages_node_js_package_json_field_definitions
```

[pnpm]: https://pnpm.js.org

> [supported binaries]: #supported-package-managers
> [supported package manager]: #supported-package-managers

Reviewer: Same here
```suggestion
[supported binaries]: #corepack_supported_package_managers
[supported package manager]: #corepack_supported_package_managers
```

# Corepack

<!-- introduced_in=REPLACEME -->
<!-- type=misc -->

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

> Stability: 1 - Experimental
```

This will produce the Experimental stability banner:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/718899/96215994-2ba6cd80-0f34-11eb-87e6-ab7f368d70f7.png)

# Corepack

<!-- introduced_in=REPLACEME -->
<!-- type=misc -->

> > Stability: 1 - Experimental

Reviewer 3: This needs an extra newline, otherwise the following paragraph gets merged into the blockquote.

```suggestion
> Stability: 1 - Experimental

```

_[Corepack][]_ is an experimental tool shipped with Node.js to help with
managing versions of your package managers. It exposes binary proxies for

> [Yarn][] and [pnpm][] that, when called, locate the package managers configured

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[supported package managers][] that, when called, locate the package managers configured
```

for your local projects, transparently install them, and finally run them
without requiring explicit user interaction.

This feature allows you to make sure that everyone in your team is using
exactly the package manager version you want them to without having to check
them into your repository or managing complex migrations across developers'
systems.

## Workflows

### Enabling the feature

Due to its experimental status Corepack currently needs to be explicitly
enabled to have any effect. To do that simply run [`corepack enable`][], which
will set up the symlinks in your environment, next to the `node` binary
(and overwrite the existing symlinks if necessary).

> From this point forward, any call to the `yarn`, `pnpm`, or `pnpx` binaries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From this point forward, any call to a [supported Corepack proxy][]
```

will work without further setup. Should you experience a problem, just run
[`corepack disable`][] to remove the proxies from your system (and consider
opening up an issue on the [Corepack repository][] to let us know).

### Configuring a package

> The Corepack proxies will find the closest [`package.json`][] files in your

Reviewer: Do you really mean plural here? There should be only one _closest_ `package.json` right?
```suggestion
The Corepack proxies will find the closest [`package.json`][] file in your
```

directory hierarchy to extract their [`"packageManager"`][] property.

If the requested package manager is [supported][], Corepack will make sure that

> all calls to the relevant binaries are run against the requested version.

Reviewer: What if the requested version doesn't exist? Does it fall back to the latest known stable version, or does it fail with an error message? Either way, that would be interesting to have it documented here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the value corresponds to a [supported package manager][], Corepack will make sure
all calls to the relevant binaries are run against the requested version.
```

### Upgrading the global versions

When running outside of an existing project (for example when running
`yarn init`), Corepack will by default use predefined versions roughly
corresponding to the latest stable releases from each tool. Those versions can
be easily overriden by running the [`corepack prepare`][] command along with the
package manager version you wish to set:

```bash
corepack prepare yarn@x.y.z --activate
```

### Offline workflow

Many production environments don't have network accesses. Since Corepack
usually downloads the package manager releases straight from their registries,
it can conflict with such environments. To avoid that happening, call the
[`corepack prepare`][] command while you still have network access (typically at
the same time you're preparing your deploy image). This will ensure that the
required package managers are available even without network access.

The `prepare` command has [various flags][], consult the detailed
[Corepack documentation][] for more information on the matter.

## Supported package managers

> Both [Yarn][] and [pnpm][] are supported by Corepack.

Reviewer: I think we should try to organise this in a clearer way. Maybe a list:
```suggestion
* `yarn` references [Yarn][]
* `pnpm` references [pnpm][]
* `pnpx` references [pnpm][]
```

or a table:

```suggestion
| Binary proxy name | Package manager |
| - | - |
| `yarn` | [Yarn][] |
| `pnpm` | [pnpm][] |
| `pnpx` | [pnpm][] |
```

# Corepack

<!-- introduced_in=REPLACEME -->
<!-- type=misc -->

> Stability: 1 - Experimental

_[Corepack][]_ is an experimental tool shipped with Node.js to help with
managing versions of your package managers. It exposes binary proxies for
[Yarn][] and [pnpm][] that, when called, locate the package managers configured
for your local projects, transparently install them, and finally run them
without requiring explicit user interaction.

This feature allows you to make sure that everyone in your team is using
exactly the package manager version you want them to without having to check
them into your repository or managing complex migrations across developers'
systems.

## Workflows

### Enabling the feature

Due to its experimental status Corepack currently needs to be explicitly
enabled to have any effect. To do that, first make sure that neither Yarn nor

> pnpm are installed (uninstall them if needed), then run:

Reviewer: Why does it matter if they are installed? If there are documented side effects, this section should reference that.

Author: It'll overwrite the existing symlinks. Will add a note about this.

Reviewer: `corepack enable` warns before doing that, right? If so, it's probably fine to remove that sentence altogether.

Author: It doesn't warn yet

```bash
corepack enable
```

From this point forward, any call to the `yarn`, `pnpm`, or `pnpx` binaries
will work without further setup. Should you experience a problem, just run

> `corepack disable` to remove the proxies from your system (and consider opening

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`corepack disable`][] to remove the proxies from your system (and consider opening
```

up an issue on the [Corepack repository][] to let us know).

### Configuring a project

The Corepack proxies will find the closest `package.json` files in your
directory hierarchy to extract their `packageManager` property, formatted as
such:

```json
{
  "packageManager": "yarn@1.22.10"
}
```

If the requested package manager is supported (only Yarn and pnpm are at the
moment), Corepack will make sure that all calls to the relevant binaries (in
this case any command starting with `yarn`) are ran against the specified

> version.

Reviewer: I think this should be documented in `packages.md`, in the `package.json` field definitions section:

https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/8e3e46d528ba3bf41413f7a24f9eeaa796742c70/doc/api/packages.md#L781-L787

### Upgrading the global versions

When running outside of an existing project (for example when running
`yarn init`), Corepack will by default use predefined versions roughly
corresponding to the latest stable releases from each tool. Those versions can

> be easily overriden by running the `corepack prepare` command along with the

Reviewer: This should link to the Corepack documentation.
```suggestion
be easily overriden by running the [`corepack prepare`][] command along with the
```

package manager version you wish to set:

```bash
corepack prepare yarn@x.y.z --activate
```

### Offline workflow

Many production environments don't have network accesses. Since Corepack
usually downloads the package manager releases straight from their registries,
it can conflict with such environments. To avoid that happening, call the

> `corepack prepare` command while you still have network access (typically at

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`corepack prepare`][] command while you still have network access (typically at
```

the same time you're preparing your deploy image). This will ensure that the
required package managers are available even without network access.

The `prepare` command has [various flags][], consult the detailed Corepack
documentation for more information on the matter.

## Troubleshooting

### Running `npm install -g yarn` doesn't work

> Npm prevents accidentally overriding the Corepack binaries when doing a global

Reviewer: ```suggestion
npm prevents accidentally overriding the Corepack binaries when doing a global
```
or
```suggestion
_npm_ prevents accidentally overriding the Corepack binaries when doing a global
```

Author: Wasn't entirely sure since it's the first word of the sentence 🤔

Reviewer: Yes, me too 😅 I check the npm README (https://github.com/npm/cli/blob/latest/README.md) and they keep it lowercase even when starting a sentence.

install. To avoid this problem, consider one of the following options:

* Don't run this command anymore; Corepack will provide the package manager
binaries anyway and will ensure that the requested versions are always
available, so installing the package managers explicitly isn't needed anymore.

* Add the `--force` to `npm install`; this will tell npm that it's fine to
override binaries, but you'll erase the Corepack ones in the process (should

> that happen, run `corepack enable` again to add them back).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that happen, run [`corepack enable`][] again to add them back).
```

_[Corepack][]_ is an experimental tool shipped with Node.js to help with
managing versions of your package managers. It exposes binary proxies for

> the [supported package managers][] that, when called, will identify whatever

Reviewer: ```suggestion
each [supported package manager][] that, when called, will identify whatever
```

[`corepack prepare`]: https://github.com/nodejs/corepack#corepack-prepare--nameversion
[`package.json`]: packages.md
[pnpm]: https://pnpm.js.org
[supported binaries]: #supported-package-managers
[supported package manager]: #supported-package-managers

> [supported package managers]: #supported-package-managers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
